A claim is a formal request submitted to the insurance company by the policyholder or beneficiaries to receive the death benefit, maturity benefit, or survival benefit, as specified in the policy.
Policy holders or beneficiaries can claim or file the claim by visiting the nearest local branch of our organization
The documents like death certificate, relationship verification certificate, postmortem report in case of accident, last premium paid receipt, etc are required to get the payment for death claim.
Similarly, for maturity claims, the documents like original copy of policy and last premium paid receipt is required to receive the payment.
You can make claim for suicidal or criminal cases as well.
Once all the required documents are submitted to the insurer, the death claim and other claims will be settled within 15 days, while surrender, maturity, and survival claims will be processed and settled within 7 days.
Please note that you need to file the claim within 90 days of the incident.
In some cases, the registered claims might get rejected as well. Claim rejections often occur when they do not meet the terms and conditions outlined in the policy. To understand in detail about the reasons behind your claim rejection, we request you to contact our nearest branch.
The money received from death claims is tax-free, while non-death claims are subject to taxes.
Life insurance is a contract between a life insurance company and a policy owner. A life insurance policy guarantees the insurer pays a sum of money to one or more named beneficiaries when the insured person dies in exchange for premiums paid by the policyholder during their lifetime.
Term life insurance is designed to last a certain number of years, then end. You choose the term when you take out the policy. Common terms are 10, 20, or 30 years. The best term life insurance policies balance affordability with long-term financial strength
Life insurance provides financial support to surviving dependents or other beneficiaries after the death of an insured policyholder. Here are some examples of people who may need life insurance:Parents with minor children. If a parent dies, the loss of their income or caregiving skills could create a financial hardship. Life insurance can make sure the kids will have the financial resources they need until they can support themselves.
The individuals you select as beneficiaries are the ones who will receive the benefits from your life insurance policy upon your death. The claim amount will either be deposited into the claimant's bank account or provided to them as an account payee cheque.